---
title: 'Uncovering Strategies in Music and Language Learning'
date: 2023-10-17
permalink: /posts/2023/02/language-learning/
tags:
  - researchprojects
---

Languages seem natural for babies and kids to pick up, but how do adults fare? This project dives into that question, focusing on how [adults learn sounds](https://samanthalchiu.github.io/portfolio/languagelearning).

Key Takeaways:

* Project Focus: We explored how adults learn sounds, especially when using techniques that infants and children typically use.
* Methods: Participants were exposed to different sound categories, which were like two-note chords, through online A/B testing. We wanted to see if they could distinguish between these sounds.
* Data Analysis: Using R, I employed t-tests and logistic regression to analyze participants' accuracy over time and whether they changed their responses based on how similar sounds were to each other.
* Findings:
 * Most participants improved their ability to identify sounds over time.
 * Improvement was linked to how participants judged the similarity between sounds. Those who noticed differences and adjusted their responses accordingly were more likely to improve.
 * Prior exposure to the language, whether it matched or mismatched the categories, didn't significantly impact learning. This suggests that what you hear before learning a language might not be as crucial as we thought.

In essence, this project sheds light on the strategies adults use when learning new sounds, emphasizing the importance of recognizing sound differences. It's a hopeful message for anyone looking to pick up a new language, suggesting that with the right strategies, learning can be effective regardless of prior exposure.