---
title: "Do happy versus sad states influence bio-behavioral markers of inhibition?"
collection: talks
type: "Poster"
permalink: /talks/2018-05-03-SANS
venue: ""
date: 2018-05-03
location: "Brooklyn, NY"
---

[Download Poster](http://samanthalchiu.github.io/files/SANS_4-27-18_sc.pptx)

Uncertainty remains about the impact emotional states have on executive functioning and specifically, inhibition. By examining event related potentials (ERP), the present study explored the influence of happiness and sadness on bio-behavioral indices of inhibition during a Go/Nogo paradigm. We hypothesized that sadness (vs. happiness) would: (1) enhance Nogo behavioral inhibition accuracy; (2) reduce Go behavioral reaction time (RT); (3) amplify Nogo N200 ERP amplitude; and (4) reduce Go and Nogo P300 ERP amplitudes. Twenty-eight participants were fitted with a 128-channel Electrical Geodesics cap, randomly assigned to an emotional induction (happy versus sad film clip), and completed the Go/Nogo task. ERP data were filtered at 1.-30Hz, blink-corrected, artifact-rejected, baseline corrected and re-referenced (average reference). Electrodes from three scalp locations (fronto-temporal, fronto-central, centro-parietal) were pooled for analysis. Although behavioral results by condition did not emerge for RT or accuracy, ERP results supported hypotheses. Specifically, N200 amplitudes were: (1) higher for Nogo than Go trials (p<.001); (2) stronger over frontal compared to centro-parietal regions (p<.004); (3) higher for sadness than happiness across Nogo trials (p=.022); and (4) highest for Nogo than Go trials in right (versus left) frontotemporal as opposed to frontocentral regions (p=.025). P300 amplitudes were: (1) higher for Nogo than Go trials (p<.001); and (2) marginally lower across Go and NoGo trials for sadness than happiness (p=.066); and (3) lower for sadness than happiness (p=.015). In sum, the findings suggest that sadness enhances inhibition, which can be beneficial for high-level cognition (complex problem solving) and goal achievement (reducing undesirable behavior).  